[DOCS] Registered domain processor (#71753)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ingest/processors/registered-domain.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[registered-domain-processor]]
=== Registered domain processor
++++
<titleabbrev>Registered Domain</titleabbrev>
++++

Extracts the registered domain (also known as effective top-level domain or
eTLD), sub-domain, and top-level domain from a fully qualified domain name
(FQDN). Uses the registered domains defined in the
https://publicsuffix.org/[Mozilla Public Suffix List].

[[registered-domain-options]]
.Registered Domain Options
[options="header"]
|======
| Name               | Required | Default | Description
| `field`            | yes      |         | Field containing the source FQDN.

> | `target_field`     | no       | `<empty string>` | Field under which the
> extracted domain components will be written. If the empty string, the domain
> components will be added to the root of the document.

Reviewer: Just some minor rewording here. Feel free to ignore if wanted. It seemed odd to me that `url` wasn't the default to fit ECS, but there's probably a good reason for that.
```suggestion
| `target_field`     | no       | `<empty string>` | Object field containing
extracted domain components. If an `<empty string>`, the processor adds
components to the document's root.
```

Author: > Just some minor rewording here. Feel free to ignore if wanted. It seemed odd to me that `url` wasn't the default to fit ECS, but there's probably a good reason for that.

Fyi, the reason for that is that there are multiple places in ECS where registered domain info may be populated so we didn't want to default to just one of them. See https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/67611#discussion_r603368001 for more context.

Reviewer: Makes sense. Thanks for the explanation @danhermann!

| `ignore_missing`   | no       | `true`  | If `true` and any required fields
are missing, the processor quietly exits without modifying the document.

include::common-options.asciidoc[]
|======

[discrete]
[[registered-domain-processor-ex]]
===== Examples

The following example illustrates the use of the registered domain processor:

[source,console]
----
POST _ingest/pipeline/_simulate
{
  "pipeline": {
    "processors": [
      {
        "registered_domain": {
          "field": "fqdn",
          "target_field": "url"
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "docs": [
    {
      "_source": {

>         "fqdn": "www.amazon.co.uk"

Reviewer: I'd use `example.com` or `example.org` in any docs or examples.
```suggestion
        "fqdn": "www.example.org"
```

Author: Good point. I did want something with a two-part TLD to illustrate that it's not just splitting the FQDN on periods. Would something such as `www.example.co.uk` work?

Reviewer: I'd use `www.example.ac.uk`. `ac.uk` is reserved for academic use and would be harder to use for nefarious means in the future.

      }
    }
  ]
}
----

Which produces the following result:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "doc": {
        ...
        "_source": {

>           "fqdn": "www.amazon.co.uk",
>           "url": {
>             "subdomain": "www",
>             "registered_domain": "amazon.co.uk",
>             "top_level_domain": "co.uk",
>             "domain": "www.amazon.co.uk"

Reviewer: Syncs with the `example.org` changes above.
```suggestion
          "fqdn": "www.example.org",
          "url": {
            "subdomain": "www",
            "registered_domain": "example.org",
            "top_level_domain": "org",
            "domain": "www.example.org"
          }
```

          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/\.\.\./"_index":"_index","_id":"_id","_ingest":{"timestamp":$body.docs.0.doc._ingest.timestamp},/]

> // NOTCONSOLE

Reviewer: I tested this locally. We should be able to remove this comment and actually run the test.
```suggestion
```
